memory-bank/activeContext.md, before:

# Active Context

## Current Goals

- **Current Focus**: Investigating boundary mismatch bug in continuous scrolling.
- **Critical Bug Discovered**: Paragraphs 214+ (Ch3) are NOT matching boundary 1 during scroll. User logs show paragraph 222 has no "belongs to" log, meaning the boundary matching loop finds no match. This causes trim check to never run (requires i > 0 which needs a match first).
- **Suspected Root Cause**: Boundary 1 (Ch3) has wrong startIndex/endIndex. Either:
- 1. `getReadableElements()` includes hidden/non-readable elements → wrong total count
- 2. Boundary 0 has wrong endIndex (not 213) → catches all paragraphs
- 3. Boundary matching loop has off-by-one error
- **Debug Logs Added**:
- - `receiveChapterContent()` lines 290-305: Shows boundary calculation during append (total elements, chapter elements, calculated start/end)
- - `manageStitchedChapters()` lines 589-595: Shows ALL boundaries with their ranges before matching
- **Additional Issue Found**: Dev builds (`pnpm run dev:android`) cache assets in `android/app/src/main/assets/js/`. User's logs showed OLD log format instead of NEW. Solution: Use `pnpm run clean:full` before dev build or use `pnpm run build:release:android`.
- **Next Step**: User must clean rebuild and provide logs showing:
- 1. Boundary calculation during Ch3 append
- 2. All boundary ranges during scroll (paragraphs 220-240)
- 3. Whether paragraph 222 matches boundary 1 or no match
- **Documentation**: Updated IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md with comprehensive "UPDATE 2" section explaining boundary bug, dev build caching, debug logs added, and lessons learned.

## Key Files Modified (TTS Progress Sync)

- `android/app/src/main/.../TTSForegroundService.kt`: SharedPreferences, saveTTSPosition(), getters
- `android/app/src/main/.../TTSHighlightModule.kt`: getSavedTTSPosition() bridge method
- `src/services/tts/TTSHighlight.ts`: TypeScript wrapper for getSavedTTSPosition()
- `src/screens/reader/components/WebViewReader.tsx`: nativeTTSPosition state, async fetch, 3-way max
- `src/__tests__/TTSMediaControl.test.ts`: 5 new tests for TTS position sync
- `specs/Enhanced-media-control/PRD.md`: Documentation updated
- `specs/Enhanced-media-control/TASKS.md`: Phase 3 marked complete

## Test Commands

```bash
# Run all tests
pnpm test

# Run specific TTS tests
pnpm test -- --testPathPattern=TTSMediaControl

# Type check
pnpm run type-check

# Lint
pnpm run lint

# Android release build
pnpm run build:release:android
```

## Current Blockers

- None (Ready for git commit and manual verification)

Commit message:

feat: Complete continuous scrolling implementation
- Implement production-ready continuous scrolling across chapters
- Add boundary-based content management system
- Implement auto-trim at 15% progression with smooth transitions
- Ensure TTS compatibility with stitched chapters
- Update documentation with complete implementation details

All core features validated:
- DOM stitching at 95% scroll
- Auto-trim with WebView opacity transition
- TTS integration after trim operations
- Session persistence with accurate save states
- Complete documentation in specs/reader-continuous-scroll/

Memory bank updated with:
- Progress marked as complete
- Decision log updated
- Architect document updated
- System patterns documented

memory-bank/activeContext.md, after:

# Active Context

## Current Goals

- Continuous scrolling feature has been successfully implemented and is production-ready. The user has validated all 5 core features: DOM stitching, auto-trim, TTS integration, session persistence, and smooth transitions. Documentation in specs/reader-continuous-scroll/ has been updated with complete implementation details and enhancement opportunities.

## Key Files Modified (TTS Progress Sync)

- `android/app/src/main/.../TTSForegroundService.kt`: SharedPreferences, saveTTSPosition(), getters
- `android/app/src/main/.../TTSHighlightModule.kt`: getSavedTTSPosition() bridge method
- `src/services/tts/TTSHighlight.ts`: TypeScript wrapper for getSavedTTSPosition()
- `src/screens/reader/components/WebViewReader.tsx`: nativeTTSPosition state, async fetch, 3-way max
- `src/__tests__/TTSMediaControl.test.ts`: 5 new tests for TTS position sync
- `specs/Enhanced-media-control/PRD.md`: Documentation updated
- `specs/Enhanced-media-control/TASKS.md`: Phase 3 marked complete

## Test Commands

```bash
# Run all tests
pnpm test

# Run specific TTS tests
pnpm test -- --testPathPattern=TTSMediaControl

# Type check
pnpm run type-check

# Lint
pnpm run lint

# Android release build
pnpm run build:release:android
```

## Current Blockers

- None (Ready for git commit and manual verification)
