.agents/memory.instruction.md, before:

---
applyTo: '**'
---

# Coding Preferences
- Style: 2 spaces, single quotes, trailing commas, no tabs (project Prettier / TS settings).
- TypeScript: strict mode; avoid unused locals, prefer explicit types for public APIs.
- Testing: use existing Jest tests; include small focused unit tests for new features.
- UX: keep labels concise and avoid duplicate markers (e.g., LOCAL duplicated twice).

# Project Architecture
- Core TTS services live under `src/services` (TTSHighlight.ts, VoiceMapper.ts, AUTHORITATIVE_VOICE_MAP).
- UI voice selection lives in `src/screens/settings/SettingsReaderScreen/Modals/VoicePickerModal.tsx`.
- Data extraction / generation tooling under `scripts/` (extract-voice-data-final.js, generate-english-high-voices.js).

# Solutions Repository
- Voice mapping: `getVoiceMapping(identifier)` returns VoiceMapping and sets `matchedNativeType` when matched via nativeIds (values: 'local'|'network'|'unknown').
- Display names: `formatVoiceName()` in `TTSHighlight` now produces simplified labels: "English (UK) — Male 1 — Clear — LOCAL" and prefers matchedNativeType tag over quality inference.
- Authoritative data: `src/services/authoritative-voice-map.ts` contains curated voice metadata sourced from web-speech-recommended-voices and used as the canonical mapping.

# Recent Changes
- Added `matchedNativeType` to VoiceMapping to distinguish local vs network native IDs.
- Removed duplicate native badge rendering in `VoicePickerModal` (single source of truth is formatVoiceName()).
- Added scripts to regenerate authoritative voice data and report (scripts/).

# 2025-12-07: TTS runtime fixes & safety additions
- Added safeInjectJS and validateAndClampParagraphIndex helpers (src/screens/reader/components/ttsHelpers.ts) to make WebView injections safer and clamp resume indices.
- WebViewReader.tsx: improved screen-wake resume (capture/verify chapter id and paragraph, clamp resume indexes), added `request-tts-exit` handling and `TTSExitDialog` + `TTSChapterSelectionDialog`, tightened save-event validation during chapter transitions, and fixed multiple resume/auto-start corner cases.
- TTSAudioManager.ts: increased batch size and refill threshold, added `hasRemainingItems()` and hardened the onQueueEmpty handler to ignore false-empty signals while refill/state operations are in progress.
- TTSHighlight.ts: added hasRemainingItems wrapper + onVoiceFallback event type and minor improvements to highlight/queue logic.
- htmlParagraphExtractor.ts: improved extraction logic (block-level delimiters, entity decoding, robust splitting) to better match WebView DOM traversal when WebView is suspended.
- AccessibilityTab.tsx: added UI for `ttsForwardChapterReset` and confirmation dialog for destructive reset-all behaviour; minor UX improvements for sliders and voice change handling.

- Cross-chapter progress updates (2025-12-07): DB and UI fixes to ensure consistent states when using TTS "Start Here" and reset flows: `markChaptersBeforePositionRead` sets `progress = 100` along with `unread = 0`; `resetFutureChaptersProgress` sets `unread = 1` with `progress = 0`; added `getRecentReadingChapters()` selector and improved `WebViewReader` + `TTSChapterSelectionDialog` UX to present up to 3 conflicting active chapters and overflow warning.

Files modified in this set:
- src/screens/reader/components/WebViewReader.tsx
- src/screens/reader/components/ttsHelpers.ts
- src/services/TTSAudioManager.ts
- src/services/TTSHighlight.ts
- src/utils/htmlParagraphExtractor.ts
- src/screens/settings/SettingsReaderScreen/tabs/AccessibilityTab.tsx

Action / Next checks
- Verify MMKV <-> DB sync stability in the wild (add save-source debug logging).
- Add targeted unit tests around resume/index clamping and onQueueEmpty false-positive scenarios.

# Notes / Next Actions
- Keep `authoritative-voice-map.ts` up-to-date from web-speech-recommended-voices when possible.
- Add cross-language voice mappings in future iterations (currently English-focused dataset added).
---
applyTo: '**'
---

# Coding Preferences
- Use project's existing style (2 spaces, single quotes, trailing commas)
- Path aliases: `@components`, `@utils`, `@hooks`, `@services`, etc.
- No console.log (use conditional logging with __DEV__)
- Use TypeScript strict mode

# Project Architecture
- React Native + WebView for reader (native modules for TTS, file access)
- TTS: Native Android service (`TTSForegroundService.kt`) + RN bridge (`TTSHighlightModule.kt`) + JS module (`TTSAudioManager.ts`)
- Reader: WebView with JS (`core.js`) communicates with RN via `postMessage`/`injectJavaScript`
- When screen is off, WebView JS is suspended - use RN-side logic for background operations

# Solutions Repository

## TTS Background Playback (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: TTS fails to continue to next chapter when screen is off
- **Cause**: WebView JS is suspended, so `navigateChapter()` doesn't trigger new JS execution
- **Solution**: 
  1. Set `backgroundTTSPendingRef = true` before navigation
  2. Watch for `chapter.id` + `html` changes in useEffect
  3. Extract paragraphs from HTML using regex (`htmlParagraphExtractor.ts`)
  4. Start TTS batch directly from RN

## Stale Paragraph Index (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: "updateState index X out of bounds" during chapter transition
- **Cause**: Old utterance IDs (e.g., `utterance_179`) still arriving after navigating to new chapter
- **Solution**: Reset `currentParagraphIndexRef = 0` on chapter change + bounds check in `highlightParagraph()`

## Log Spam Reduction (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: "No more items to refill" logged on every `onSpeechDone` after queue exhausted
- **Solution**: Added `hasLoggedNoMoreItems` flag to only log once per batch

## Cross-Chapter Event Pollution (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: Save events from old chapter corrupt new chapter's progress during transitions
- **Cause**: WebView's `updateState()` sends save events without chapter ID; old WebView still processes while new chapter loads
- **Key Insight**: WebView-side state updates continue independently of RN chapter state
- **Solution**:
  1. Add `chapterId` to ALL save events in `core.js` (5 locations)
  2. Validate `chapterId` in RN's `onMessage` handler for save events
  3. Add 1-second grace period (`chapterTransitionTimeRef`) after chapter change
  4. Clear TTSAudioManager queue state before starting new batch
  5. Reject events with mismatched or missing chapterId during grace period

## ForegroundService Error on Android 12+ (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: `ForegroundServiceStartNotAllowedException` during chapter transitions
- **Cause**: Android 12+ restricts starting foreground services from background
- **Solution**: Track `isServiceForeground` state, only call `startForeground()` when not already foreground

## Screen Wake TTS Scroll Issue (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: When screen wakes during background TTS after chapter transition, WebView scrolls to wrong paragraphs (from previous chapter) then jumps back
- **Cause**: 
  1. When screen wakes, WebView resumes and processes stale JS injections from RN's event listeners
  2. `onSpeechStart`/`onSpeechDone` still have queued calls for old chapter paragraphs
  3. These inject `highlightParagraph()` and `updateState()` with old indices, causing wrong scrolls
- **Solution**:
  1. Add chapter ID parameter to `highlightParagraph(paragraphIndex, chapterId)` and `updateState(paragraphIndex, chapterId)` in core.js
  2. Validate chapter ID before processing - reject stale events from old chapters
  3. Pass `prevChapterIdRef.current` in all RN inject calls
  4. Add screen wake handler in AppState listener to force sync WebView to current paragraph

## TTS Resume Skips First Paragraph (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: When user confirms resume from prompt, TTS starts from next paragraph instead of saved paragraph
- **Cause**: `restoreState()` sets `currentElement` but then calls `next()` which advances to next element due to `findNextTextNode()` logic
- **Solution**: Call `speak()` directly instead of `next()` in `restoreState()` when `autoStart` is true. Also set `prevElement` to previous paragraph to prevent skip logic.

## TTS Slider UX (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: Rate/pitch sliders only respond to tap, not drag. Hard to adjust values precisely.
- **Solution**:
  1. Add local state for slider values (`localRate`, `localPitch`) with drag tracking
  2. Use `onValueChange` for real-time display updates during drag
  3. Use `onSlidingComplete` to persist to settings
  4. Add +/- buttons for fine control
  5. Add visual markers (Slow/Normal/Fast, Low/Normal/High)
  6. Reduce max values to more usable ranges (3x speed, 2x pitch)

## TTS Multi-Chapter Continuation Bug (2025-12-04)
- **Problem**: TTS playback stops after transitioning to one chapter, won't continue to subsequent chapters
- **Root Cause**: After successful background TTS batch start in `WebViewReader.tsx`, `isTTSReadingRef.current` was not set to `true`. The `onQueueEmpty` handler checks this flag and ignores events if false.
- **Key Insight**: The TTS flow requires `isTTSReadingRef.current = true` for `onQueueEmpty` to trigger next chapter navigation
- **Solution**: Added `isTTSReadingRef.current = true;` in the `.then()` callback after successful `TTSHighlight.speakBatch()` call
- **Files Modified**: `src/screens/reader/components/WebViewReader.tsx`

## TTS Robotic/Low-Quality Voice Bug (2025-12-04)
- **Problem**: TTS sometimes uses robotic/low-quality voice instead of user's preferred voice
- **Root Cause**: In `TTSForegroundService.kt`, when preferred voice is not found in `ttsInstance.voices`, the loop completes silently without setting any voice, falling back to system default
- **Key Insight**: Android TTS doesn't throw errors on voice unavailability - it silently falls back. TypeScript-side retry logic is ineffective.
- **Solution**: 
  1. Added voice availability check with retry logic in native `speak()` and `speakBatch()` functions
  2. If preferred voice not found, refresh voices list and retry
  3. If still not found, select best quality voice for the same language as fallback
  4. Added logging for voice selection issues
- **Files Modified**: `android/app/src/main/java/com/rajarsheechatterjee/LNReader/TTSForegroundService.kt`

# Failed Approaches (Avoid These)
- Adding retry logic only in TypeScript layer for voice issues - doesn't help because Android TTS doesn't throw errors on voice unavailability
- Using `global.showToast()` for notifications in service files - causes TypeScript errors due to missing type definitions

Commit message:

chore: upgrade React Native to 0.82.1 and modernize tooling
Major Updates:
- React Native: 0.81.5 → 0.82.1
- React: 19.1.0 → 19.1.1
- ESLint: 8.57.1 → 9.39.1 (migrated to v9 flat config)
- Prettier: 2.8.8 → 3.7.4
- Husky: 7.0.4 → 9.1.7
- Jest: 29.7.0 → 30.2.0

Code Quality Improvements:
- Formatted 30+ files with Prettier for consistent code style
- Fixed all TypeScript compilation errors
- Resolved all ESLint warnings
- Added ESLint v9 flat configuration (eslint.config.js)
- Added @typescript-eslint plugins for better TypeScript support

Build System Enhancements:
- Increased Gradle JVM Metaspace: 512m → 1024m
- Enabled Gradle parallel builds
- Enabled Gradle build caching for faster builds
- Renamed metro.config.js → metro.config.cjs for ES module compatibility

Testing:
- Added @testing-library/react-native for modern testing
- Created test files for TTS components:
  - src/services/__tests__/TTSAudioManager.test.ts
  - src/screens/reader/components/__tests__/ttsHelpers.test.ts
  - src/utils/__tests__/ttsNotification.test.ts
  - src/database/migrations/__tests__/003_add_tts_state.test.ts

Documentation:
- Added security audit documentation (specs/security-audit/)
- Created build improvements summary
- Documented security position for open-source projects
- Added SSL pinning implementation guides (for future reference)

Note: SSL pinning implementation was removed due to missing
dependencies (react-native-ssl-pinning). This can be implemented
in a future update when the dependency is properly added and tested.

.agents/memory.instruction.md, after:

---
applyTo: '**'
---

# Coding Preferences
- Style: 2 spaces, single quotes, trailing commas, no tabs (project Prettier / TS settings).
- TypeScript: strict mode; avoid unused locals, prefer explicit types for public APIs.
- Testing: use existing Jest tests; include small focused unit tests for new features.
- UX: keep labels concise and avoid duplicate markers (e.g., LOCAL duplicated twice).

# Project Architecture
- Core TTS services live under `src/services` (TTSHighlight.ts, VoiceMapper.ts, AUTHORITATIVE_VOICE_MAP).
- UI voice selection lives in `src/screens/settings/SettingsReaderScreen/Modals/VoicePickerModal.tsx`.
- Data extraction / generation tooling under `scripts/` (extract-voice-data-final.js, generate-english-high-voices.js).

# Solutions Repository
- Voice mapping: `getVoiceMapping(identifier)` returns VoiceMapping and sets `matchedNativeType` when matched via nativeIds (values: 'local'|'network'|'unknown').
- Display names: `formatVoiceName()` in `TTSHighlight` now produces simplified labels: "English (UK) — Male 1 — Clear — LOCAL" and prefers matchedNativeType tag over quality inference.
- Authoritative data: `src/services/authoritative-voice-map.ts` contains curated voice metadata sourced from web-speech-recommended-voices and used as the canonical mapping.

# Recent Changes
- Added `matchedNativeType` to VoiceMapping to distinguish local vs network native IDs.
- Removed duplicate native badge rendering in `VoicePickerModal` (single source of truth is formatVoiceName()).
- Added scripts to regenerate authoritative voice data and report (scripts/).
- Fixed Gradle 8.14.3 configuration cache compatibility (2025-12-08): Updated `android/settings.gradle` to use single-chain provider approach with `.map()` for Expo path resolution, eliminating external process errors. Increased Metaspace from 512m to 1024m in `android/gradle.properties` to prevent memory warnings.

# 2025-12-07: TTS runtime fixes & safety additions
- Added safeInjectJS and validateAndClampParagraphIndex helpers (src/screens/reader/components/ttsHelpers.ts) to make WebView injections safer and clamp resume indices.
- WebViewReader.tsx: improved screen-wake resume (capture/verify chapter id and paragraph, clamp resume indexes), added `request-tts-exit` handling and `TTSExitDialog` + `TTSChapterSelectionDialog`, tightened save-event validation during chapter transitions, and fixed multiple resume/auto-start corner cases.
- TTSAudioManager.ts: increased batch size and refill threshold, added `hasRemainingItems()` and hardened the onQueueEmpty handler to ignore false-empty signals while refill/state operations are in progress.
- TTSHighlight.ts: added hasRemainingItems wrapper + onVoiceFallback event type and minor improvements to highlight/queue logic.
- htmlParagraphExtractor.ts: improved extraction logic (block-level delimiters, entity decoding, robust splitting) to better match WebView DOM traversal when WebView is suspended.
- AccessibilityTab.tsx: added UI for `ttsForwardChapterReset` and confirmation dialog for destructive reset-all behaviour; minor UX improvements for sliders and voice change handling.

- Cross-chapter progress updates (2025-12-07): DB and UI fixes to ensure consistent states when using TTS "Start Here" and reset flows: `markChaptersBeforePositionRead` sets `progress = 100` along with `unread = 0`; `resetFutureChaptersProgress` sets `unread = 1` with `progress = 0`; added `getRecentReadingChapters()` selector and improved `WebViewReader` + `TTSChapterSelectionDialog` UX to present up to 3 conflicting active chapters and overflow warning.

Files modified in this set:
- src/screens/reader/components/WebViewReader.tsx
- src/screens/reader/components/ttsHelpers.ts
- src/services/TTSAudioManager.ts
- src/services/TTSHighlight.ts
- src/utils/htmlParagraphExtractor.ts
- src/screens/settings/SettingsReaderScreen/tabs/AccessibilityTab.tsx

Action / Next checks
- Verify MMKV <-> DB sync stability in the wild (add save-source debug logging).
- Add targeted unit tests around resume/index clamping and onQueueEmpty false-positive scenarios.

# Notes / Next Actions
- Keep `authoritative-voice-map.ts` up-to-date from web-speech-recommended-voices when possible.
- Add cross-language voice mappings in future iterations (currently English-focused dataset added).
---
applyTo: '**'
---

# Coding Preferences
- Use project's existing style (2 spaces, single quotes, trailing commas)
- Path aliases: `@components`, `@utils`, `@hooks`, `@services`, etc.
- No console.log (use conditional logging with __DEV__)
- Use TypeScript strict mode

# Project Architecture
- React Native + WebView for reader (native modules for TTS, file access)
- TTS: Native Android service (`TTSForegroundService.kt`) + RN bridge (`TTSHighlightModule.kt`) + JS module (`TTSAudioManager.ts`)
- Reader: WebView with JS (`core.js`) communicates with RN via `postMessage`/`injectJavaScript`
- When screen is off, WebView JS is suspended - use RN-side logic for background operations

# Solutions Repository

## TTS Background Playback (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: TTS fails to continue to next chapter when screen is off
- **Cause**: WebView JS is suspended, so `navigateChapter()` doesn't trigger new JS execution
- **Solution**: 
  1. Set `backgroundTTSPendingRef = true` before navigation
  2. Watch for `chapter.id` + `html` changes in useEffect
  3. Extract paragraphs from HTML using regex (`htmlParagraphExtractor.ts`)
  4. Start TTS batch directly from RN

## Stale Paragraph Index (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: "updateState index X out of bounds" during chapter transition
- **Cause**: Old utterance IDs (e.g., `utterance_179`) still arriving after navigating to new chapter
- **Solution**: Reset `currentParagraphIndexRef = 0` on chapter change + bounds check in `highlightParagraph()`

## Log Spam Reduction (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: "No more items to refill" logged on every `onSpeechDone` after queue exhausted
- **Solution**: Added `hasLoggedNoMoreItems` flag to only log once per batch

## Cross-Chapter Event Pollution (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: Save events from old chapter corrupt new chapter's progress during transitions
- **Cause**: WebView's `updateState()` sends save events without chapter ID; old WebView still processes while new chapter loads
- **Key Insight**: WebView-side state updates continue independently of RN chapter state
- **Solution**:
  1. Add `chapterId` to ALL save events in `core.js` (5 locations)
  2. Validate `chapterId` in RN's `onMessage` handler for save events
  3. Add 1-second grace period (`chapterTransitionTimeRef`) after chapter change
  4. Clear TTSAudioManager queue state before starting new batch
  5. Reject events with mismatched or missing chapterId during grace period

## ForegroundService Error on Android 12+ (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: `ForegroundServiceStartNotAllowedException` during chapter transitions
- **Cause**: Android 12+ restricts starting foreground services from background
- **Solution**: Track `isServiceForeground` state, only call `startForeground()` when not already foreground

## Screen Wake TTS Scroll Issue (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: When screen wakes during background TTS after chapter transition, WebView scrolls to wrong paragraphs (from previous chapter) then jumps back
- **Cause**: 
  1. When screen wakes, WebView resumes and processes stale JS injections from RN's event listeners
  2. `onSpeechStart`/`onSpeechDone` still have queued calls for old chapter paragraphs
  3. These inject `highlightParagraph()` and `updateState()` with old indices, causing wrong scrolls
- **Solution**:
  1. Add chapter ID parameter to `highlightParagraph(paragraphIndex, chapterId)` and `updateState(paragraphIndex, chapterId)` in core.js
  2. Validate chapter ID before processing - reject stale events from old chapters
  3. Pass `prevChapterIdRef.current` in all RN inject calls
  4. Add screen wake handler in AppState listener to force sync WebView to current paragraph

## TTS Resume Skips First Paragraph (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: When user confirms resume from prompt, TTS starts from next paragraph instead of saved paragraph
- **Cause**: `restoreState()` sets `currentElement` but then calls `next()` which advances to next element due to `findNextTextNode()` logic
- **Solution**: Call `speak()` directly instead of `next()` in `restoreState()` when `autoStart` is true. Also set `prevElement` to previous paragraph to prevent skip logic.

## TTS Slider UX (2025-12-03)
- **Problem**: Rate/pitch sliders only respond to tap, not drag. Hard to adjust values precisely.
- **Solution**:
  1. Add local state for slider values (`localRate`, `localPitch`) with drag tracking
  2. Use `onValueChange` for real-time display updates during drag
  3. Use `onSlidingComplete` to persist to settings
  4. Add +/- buttons for fine control
  5. Add visual markers (Slow/Normal/Fast, Low/Normal/High)
  6. Reduce max values to more usable ranges (3x speed, 2x pitch)

## TTS Multi-Chapter Continuation Bug (2025-12-04)
- **Problem**: TTS playback stops after transitioning to one chapter, won't continue to subsequent chapters
- **Root Cause**: After successful background TTS batch start in `WebViewReader.tsx`, `isTTSReadingRef.current` was not set to `true`. The `onQueueEmpty` handler checks this flag and ignores events if false.
- **Key Insight**: The TTS flow requires `isTTSReadingRef.current = true` for `onQueueEmpty` to trigger next chapter navigation
- **Solution**: Added `isTTSReadingRef.current = true;` in the `.then()` callback after successful `TTSHighlight.speakBatch()` call
- **Files Modified**: `src/screens/reader/components/WebViewReader.tsx`

## TTS Robotic/Low-Quality Voice Bug (2025-12-04)
- **Problem**: TTS sometimes uses robotic/low-quality voice instead of user's preferred voice
- **Root Cause**: In `TTSForegroundService.kt`, when preferred voice is not found in `ttsInstance.voices`, the loop completes silently without setting any voice, falling back to system default
- **Key Insight**: Android TTS doesn't throw errors on voice unavailability - it silently falls back. TypeScript-side retry logic is ineffective.
- **Solution**: 
  1. Added voice availability check with retry logic in native `speak()` and `speakBatch()` functions
  2. If preferred voice not found, refresh voices list and retry
  3. If still not found, select best quality voice for the same language as fallback
  4. Added logging for voice selection issues
- **Files Modified**: `android/app/src/main/java/com/rajarsheechatterjee/LNReader/TTSForegroundService.kt`

# Failed Approaches (Avoid These)
- Adding retry logic only in TypeScript layer for voice issues - doesn't help because Android TTS doesn't throw errors on voice unavailability
- Using `global.showToast()` for notifications in service files - causes TypeScript errors due to missing type definitions
